What's the difference between low
vision and visually impaired?
>> Yes, so visually impaired is sort of
an umbrella term that covers
a lot of vision issues.
Whereas low vision is more specific to
someone who has, not fully blind, but
has enough of a vision impairment
that affects their daily life,
I think there are some
numbers around this stuff.
So visually impaired would include people
who are fully blind and low vision,
whereas low vision is a bit more specific.
People who can see somewhat and
it's so different for every person.
>> How much should devs use screen
readers in their day to day job?
>> I would say regularly, just so
that you are actually doing it,
it does take some practice,
so it is a bit of a balance.
You don't wanna sink a bunch of time into
something that you might be uncovering
things that our issues are,
I spoke to this a little bit earlier,
where sometimes it's operator error.
[LAUGH] And something we think
is an issue really isn't or
maybe there is an issue
that we didn't find.
So I'd say, you work it in your workflow,
I mean maybe once a week or
just on a periodic basis, depending on,
are you working on the same feature for
a long time?
I think when you work on something,
I don't know,
if you're never gonna look at it again,
but people use it,
definitely you have to test it when you
have the opportunity to make changes.
If you're working on something regularly,
like I just built a feature that
took me maybe a month, and so,
I had various aspects of this
epic that I was working on.
I tested it multiple steps of the way.
So I'd say,
it's kind of a balance of testing it
enough that you are familiar with it.
But if you're not
an accessibility specialist,
you're probably not gonna do it
every single time you sit down.
I would say what we go into in
the next section with debugging,
you would do a lot more.
There's developer tools that we can use
that will give us a pretty good idea of
what the screen reader will read out.
And those are just so much easier to work
in your regular workflow that I would say,
reach for those first.
>> Is there something like cross browser
testing, but for screen readers?
How much should we put into testing
our work against different screen
reader technologies?
Or is it enough to use something
like the built in Mac voiceover?
>> Yeah, so I do think that testing it
on Windows screen readers is important,
because depending on your user traffic,
you could let that dictate
some of how you prioritize.
Safari and Voiceover work the best,
but Safari is kind of an itch browser,
unfortunately, I mean,
it's not what we're often developing in.
People are probably visiting your site
more with Windows Chrome, just a guess.
It's probably not true across the board,
but we want to be testing with
screen readers on Windows because
they do work so differently.
Voiceover is great, I would definitely
say if you could test it regularly,
that would be great.
I think if you could only pick one
to prioritize, I would honestly say
Windows over Voiceover,
just because of how many people use it.
NVVA on Windows and JAWS,
they work really similarly, so
you could probably just opt for
NVDA, at least as a developer.
I think for accessibility teams
that are more specialized,
they are going to be putting
more resources and more time,
more experts on testing
various screen readers.
Not everyone has an accessibility team.
So I think you have to kind of pick what's
the right balance of testing for you.
I did mention one tool earlier
called assistive labs.
Let's pull that,
it's assistive without the E.
And so, thinking of a browser stack or
something that's kind of cross
platform to test, that's sort of
the goal of assistive labs, so
that you can test with screen readers
even if you're not using that platform.
So I would check that out
kind of in this realm.
It could be a service that could
be a good tool for your team.
It's pretty awesome.
Is there any other questions?
>> Does it make sense to
create alt text for galleries?
Thinking something like a carousel or
image gallery script.
>> Yes, so we have images.
I mean, if they're worthy of going [LAUGH]
in a gallery, they should probably have
some alt text, especially if those
images are wrapped in links.
So when we looked at the W3C Alt decision
tree, that link that we pulled up earlier,
they describe all of these
different scenarios, so
you don't have to remember all of them.
But if those images are in links,
we need something to give text to
the links that are wrapping them.
But even if they're just plain images in a
gallery, if they're worth looking at them,
they should have some alt text on them,
I would say.
>> Many SEOs say that you shouldn't
leave alt text blank, is there
another way to have screen readers ignore
the old texts for decorative images?
>> Yes, I would be curious what
they are basing that on, but
sometimes we have to work with the advice
that our marketing really insist on.
So leaving the alt attribute blank,
like the attributes present,
but the value is blank,
you could also have a screen reader
skip over an image by putting
a role of presentation on it.
You could even put Aria hidden of true
on there, that's a pretty big hammer for
a tool when I would ask the question
of like, do we really need to do that?
Before we reach for Aria for
things, we wanna make sure that
we absolutely need to because
there could be other aspects.
I don't know, it's a pretty simple one,
so it might not be too complicated, but
anytime you're like, maybe we could put
some Aria on it, you should caution,
like pause, do we really need to?
[LAUGH] But putting role presentation
on it might be able to skip it.
I guess I would be curious
why we would need to.
>> So is it better to use tools like Axe,
WAVE, and Lighthouse, and
maybe even voice control to test
keyboard instead of voiceover for
devs that are new to accessibility and
don't really know much?
>> Yeah, so the question was about whether
to use tools like browser extensions,
which we're going to dive
into a lot here in a minute.
I would say those
are a great starting point.
So the screen reader, it's nice to fire
it up, it's nice to know that it exists.
And you have to know kind of what we're
trying to get to with the tooling.
Like when we're using Axe or WAVE,
as you'll see what those are in a minute,
we kind of wanna know what's the purpose.
And so, if you have at least
tried out the screen reader,
even if you do use the developer tools,
primarily it's like conceptually,
you have to understand
what we're trying to do.
And so, it's hard to understand that
without ever firing up a screen reader,
but I think if you can get
most of the way there and
prevent some accessibility defects, as we
call them, let's just call it what it is.
They're defects in our projects.
If we can prevent those from shipping
by using developer tools, great,
I think that's fine.
As we do it more and more,
we should fire it up every now and then,
fire up the screen reader.
Finding that right balance of putting
in enough time that it's worthwhile and
useful is something that everyone
is gonna be different at.
I probably do it more than
some other developers do, but
I think like I mentioned,
conceptually we need to understand
what it is that we're trying to make.
Like, what are we adding
all this markup for?
And yeah, so that's the goal.
>> And David in chat was just
commenting that, [COUGH] on his team,
they use assistive labs for
the team and then QA and
our lead accessibility engineer
as a Windows and Android device.
>> Cool, awesome, so
people using assistive labs in the wild.
And that is interesting to hear
about how teams are structured.
So for some teams there are going
to be accessibility specialists,
that is a thing that people do.
It is a little more rare,
especially in today's market.
So the more, I mean,
I guess regardless of what's going on
in the job market, it's helpful if
a lot of us can sort of carry the weight
of building accessible web pages.
And so, we have to verify that somehow.
And in the next section,
I'm gonna show you kind of the workhorse
tools of how you'll do that.
But with or without accessibility
specialists and accessibility teams,
like if we all did more [LAUGH] to make
things accessible to like prevent totally
inaccessible things from shipping,
I bet we would have an impact.
So that's my goal,
is just to get all of us to participate
even if we're not experts in it.